    I suppose I’m somewhat of an outlier in that I enjoyed math in elementary school. I enjoyed going through the math workbooks, as the problems they presented felt inherently engaging and I felt like I was accomplishing something worthwhile by solving them. This changed somewhat as I went into middle and high school math, where for the most part the classes and workbook problems felt more like busywork. But I have gotten back into math now and decided to major in it because I have developed a deeper appreciation for the role of math, both in intellectual development and practical effectiveness, which serve to support my long-term goal of making progress in the field of machine learning research.
	I have always been drawn to games and puzzles. Before I could even really read the cards, I played Yugioh (a trading card game) with my dad, who would read their effects to me. I played for almost ten years, traveling to tournaments across the country in high school, and found joy in the constantly solving new puzzles of deck building and strategy as the formats changed - the set of legal cards changed every few months, along with new cards being released, that resulted in frequent overhauls of the dominant decks/strategies. This interest continued to other games in high school, which I would essentially become obsessed with for months or years at a time. I loved how playing games against people was like a conversation; I was constantly being challenged to find the best move, and I could feel comfortable that I was making concrete progress because of the results - victory and rising up the ranks.
My joy from gaming eventually started to shift towards coding when I started to build programs on my own after taking computer science classes. I watched, and began to look up to people, who touted the importance and benefits of being a builder - developing the technical skills to be able to create cool and useful tools/programs. Although there certainly wasn’t the same rush that comes from playing to win in a game, building programs felt somewhat similar to building a deck, and I still got the feeling after I completed a project that I knew I learned something new and was making progress. Mostly, I focused on building whatever would be useful for other pursuits; websites for learning vocab, typing in other languages, or chrome extensions to read faster. But through picking up chess and what I was learning about in my psychology classes at the time, I started to develop more appreciation for the benefits of the technical side of coding as opposed to just the practical applications, which marked the next step in my journey towards math in college.
    One of the psychology studies I think about the most is one about learning how to hit different baseball pitches. Participants were separated into two groups: those that were taught and practiced in blocks (explicit periods where they would focus on fastballs, followed by periods for curveballs) vs those that were constantly learning a mixture and would have to react and adjust to the ball thrown at them without knowing beforehand what it would be. The group with “interleaved” pitch types learned better, a result that was also found in an analogous study where students learned math equations in blocks vs mixed. But what really struck me is that the participants in the block groups both enjoyed the process more, and thought they learned more, compared to participants in the other groups. A lot of what I took away from these studies is that learning should feel challenging (not that it shouldn’t also be fun when possible, of course).
    I was also coming to a similar conclusion from reflecting on some of my chess games. Often I would finish a game, feeling deeply emotionally connected to what I thought were all of my mistakes during the game, only to check the computer analysis and find that I actually played quite well and my emotions correlated almost perfectly with the difficulties of the position. Conversely, when I finished a game feeling satisfied with my play I would usually find that both me and my opponent were oblivious to huge lapses in our evaluation. I began to appreciate the nuances of the game, and let myself feel emotionally burdened by the struggles I faced in the game even when it felt unpleasant. I adopted the mindset that rigorously investing in the technical details was the best way to ensure that reality was reflected in your understanding and decision making.
    Additionally, I was becoming disillusioned with the process of psychology research, and craved an approach that more closely emulated the concreteness and objectivity I found in games. I started taking math classes, and found the style of approaching problems much more natural than my impression from high school. I saw math as the least fallible and most direct tool for increasing my understanding and practicing the meticulous mindset that I came to value. Furthermore, it seemed to align neatly with the goal that was coming to the forefront of my attention - improving artificial intelligence.
    Inspired by the deepmind team’s advancements, including AlphaFold, AlphaZero (their chess engine), and AlphaTensor, I was cultivating an interest in machine learning and its ability to validate the underlying truth in science and other fields. I was amazed to discover that in chess, many theoretical openings played by grandmasters were essentially validated by computer engines, showing that players were making progress in their objective accuracy over time. Similarly, AlphaTensor rediscovered the best known algorithms for matrix multiplication (albeit with a few improvements). I find the idea of using an external intelligence to verify and expand our understanding extremely intriguing, and the role of math in this vision is a big part of what has led me to want to pursue it today.

- What is it about the subject that attracted you to study mathematics in college? 

- Does what initially attracted to math still attract you to the subject? 

    Ultimately, I think a large part of what attracted me to study math is the finiteness of the problems, reflecting the games I enjoyed playing, where I was challenged to find the correct answer and could feel satisfied in my learning if I was successful. A lot of what has changed it that I not only see value in the process of problem solving, but also in the practical applications, and see improving deep learning as a compelling goal both out of personal curiosity and potential to positively impact the world.

- Can you describe one instance in which your mathematical training to date has shaped your approach to something non-STEM related? 

    My mathematical training has definitely contributed to how I view a lot of fields, but the one that comes to mind first is political science. I have never particularly liked how politics works, and math has helped me develop and solidify my opinions on the matter. There are two main things I learned from math that contribute to this: the importance of nuance/assumptions and the value of having a system for making decisions/progressing your understanding. 
    I think the trap that a lot of people fall into in political discussions is letting emotionally dense anecdotes/experiences dictate their perspective on much larger issues. In math, I have learned that in many cases the best way to understand a system is to express the relationship between parameters (like in the quadratic formula); it is simply not possible to know the answer without knowing the details of the parameters or situation at hand. Likewise, in political science I have lost faith in the notion that there can be meaningful answers to poorly parameterized questions. I think it would be much more worthwhile to develop better ways of framing political questions, and considering what assumptions are appropriate, than having high level debates on morality or specific policies.  
    The biggest way math has influenced my political beliefs is by causing me to question the way political decisions are made. I find people have a general assumption that discussing opinions is inherently valuable, and that they think it makes a big difference how the opinions of a populace are translated into government policy (for example, democracy). But I have grown to doubt the value of opinions and turn to other ways of making decisions; I wonder if people would do better to confine emotional arguments to the subject of which metrics (life expectancy, standard of living, etc.) should be prioritized, and focus intellectual efforts on developing an empirical framework for optimizing those metrics.

- As you have deepened your knowledge of mathematics, what has surprised you about the subject? 

    In some ways, computer science closely resembles math, and the fields have a great synergy in my mind; developments in math (such as boolean algebra) fuel modern computer design and computer programs serve as useful tools for math research. Something that has surprised me about math is how many potential questions there are to investigate, and how unclear it can be which questions are most fruitful to pursue. Especially for more abstract and “pure” branches of math, I do see it as somewhat of a problem that there are fewer real world applications, and I view progress in computer science as a worthwhile goal that could benefit the orientation of such fields of math.

- What mathematics classes have you taken since beginning college? 

- What other formative mathematical experiences (REU, SIP…) have you had? 

- How have those classes and experiences shaped your view of the subject?

    Since starting college, I have really only taken up to calculus III and linear algebra at this point. I am in probability and topology this semester, so I definitely anticipate having my perspective shift in some ways as I go through my first proof-based class. The other formative math experience I have had is through trying to self-study machine learning and recreate some basic models from scratch. This experience gave me a deeper appreciation for having a structured curriculum and lectures, as it felt just about as hard to know what to study as it did to actually learn what I set my mind to. Additionally, I think I enjoyed taking linear algebra and calculus III a lot more as a result; I was already curious about a lot of things that were introduced in class, and could see a practical value in them that helped motivate me.

